# bios-611-project
The dataset I have interests on is an (cross-sectional) image data from ADNI (Alzheimer’s Disease Neuroimaging Initiative), which includes 160 amyloids (A), 160 tau (T) and 160 neurodegeneration ([N]) respectively. Besides, it also contains outcome variables including memory score (ADNI_MEM) and execution functional score (ADNI_EF), which are common indicators of Alzheimer's disease (AD). 
Although the root cause of Alzheimer's disease (AD) is largely elusive, the amyloid hypothesis has been widely used in the AD research framework, where amyloidosis induces (A biomarker) or facilitates the spread of pathologic tau (T biomarker) followed by immediate neurodegeneration ([N] biomarker) and progressive cognitive decline. As the massive heterogeneities manifested in the clinical symptoms, it is interesting but also critical to understand the pathophysiological mechanism of how whole-brain AT[N] biomarkers exert a synergistic effect on cognitive decline in the long period of disease progression. To investigate on this important scientific question, I will try to present and implement a novel multivariate statistical inference approach on the ADNI data to uncover the causal-like effect of AT[N] biomarkers on cognitive decline as well as the underlying non-modifiable risk factors through high-dimensional neuroimaging phenotypes. Specifically, I plan to present a multivariate variable selection method to identify a set of brain regions where the AT[N] biomarkers exhibit strong correlations to the clinical outcomes, such as the composite scores regarding memory or executive function domains. Next, traditional medication analysis should be conducted to uncover all possible mechanistic spreading pathways of AT[N] biomarkers that lead to cognitive decline. At last, I may be able to investigate the survival time for each identified (either direct or mediated) pathological pathway toward the onset of clinical symptoms, which allows us to manage the priority of risk factors more effectively in routine clinical practice.
To be more specific, Integrative factor regression model can be applied to select key regions of interests (ROI). After variable selection, structural equation modelling with Sobel test is considered to find out potential mediation effect in causal relations. 
